create new docs users/get-started (#230)
vdaas/vald: docs/user/get-started.md

# Get Started

> For who want to use or be interested in Vald, this article shows a way to deploy and run Vald.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For the one who is interested in Vald, this article will help you to deploy and run Vald on K8s.
```

> In this article, Scylla DB is used as a backend datastore of meta and backup-manager.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In this article, Scylla DB is used as a backend datastore for index-metadata and backup-manager.
```

> Fashion-minist is used as an example for dataset.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Fashion-mnist is used as an example dataset.
```

> Also, you can see basic info of Vald.

Reviewer: maybe can delete this sentense?

    1. [Main Features](#Main-Features)
    2. [Requirements](#Requirements)
2. [Starting Vald on k8s cluster](#Starting-Vald-on-k8s-cluster)
    1. [Deploy](#Deploy)
    2. [Run](#Run)
3. [Advanced](#Advanced)

## About

> Vald is distibuted high scalable & high-speed approximate nearest neighor seardch engine.<br>

Reviewer 2: ![badge](https://img.shields.io/badge/review-nits-green.svg?style=flat-square)
```suggestion
Vald is distibuted high scalable and high-speed approximate nearest neighor search engine.<br>
```

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Vald is distibuted high scalable and high-speed approximate nearest neighbor vector search engine.<br>
```

> Vald is distibuted high scalable and high-speed approximate nearest neighbor search engine.<br>

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Vald is distributed high scalable and high-speed approximate nearest neighbor search engine.<br>
```

> It provides search result lists for input (e.g. word, sentence, image ...) which is coverted as (also high-dimensional) vector when searching neighbor.<br>

Reviewer: ```suggestion
It provides the searching result of any input (e.g. word, sentence, image ...) which is converted to a multi-dimensional vector when searching the neighbor.<br>
```

> Vald is designed as Cloud Native.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Vald is designed base on Cloud Native.
```

> Vald is designed as Cloud Native and also use World Fastest ANN Algorithm [NGT](https://github.com/yahoojapan/NGT) for search neighors.

Reviewer 2: ![badge](https://img.shields.io/badge/review-nits-green.svg?style=flat-square)
```suggestion
Vald is designed as Cloud Native. It uses World Fastest ANN Algorithm [NGT](https://github.com/yahoojapan/NGT) for searching neighbors.
```

> It uses World Fastest ANN Algorithm [NGT](https://github.com/yahoojapan/NGT) for search neighbors.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
It uses the fastest ANN Algorithm [NGT](https://github.com/yahoojapan/NGT) to search neighbors.
```

### Main Features

- Auto Indexing

>     - ???

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
    - Normally, when changing the Graph Index, the Graph must be locked, but  Vald uses distributed index graph, it is extremely difficult for the user to reconstruct the Graph.
    - Therefore, Vald automatically indexes distributed Graphs sequentially.
```

- Ingress Filltering

>     - ???

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
    - Vald has flexible customizability, which is the Ingress / Egress filter.
    - These can be freely configured by the user to fit the Vald grpc interface.
    - Ingress Filter: Ability to Vectorize through Filter on request
    - Egress Filter: A function to rerank or filter the Search response with your own algorithm
```

>     - Vald, which is designed as Cloud Native search engine, can use cluster resource especially memory and cpu.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
    - Vald is a cloud-native vector search engine running on Kubernetes, which enables horizontal scaling of memory and cpu for billion scale of vector data.
```

- Horizonal Scaling
    - Vald, which is designed as Cloud Native search engine, can use cluster resource especially memory and cpu.

- Auto Index Backup

>     - Vald has auto index backup with MySQL + Redis or Cassndora which is helpful for quick recovery.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
    - Vald has auto index backup feature using MySQL + Redis or Cassndora which enables disaster recovery.
```

- Distributed Indexing

>     - Vald indexes insert vecotr to distibuted multiple NGT agent. 

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
    - Vald indexes vecotr to distibuted multiple agent. 
    - Which means each agent has different graph index
```

- Index Replication

>     - ???

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
    - Vald stores each index in multiple agents which enables index replicas
    - Rebalance replica when some pods go down
```

### Requirements

- k8s: 
- go:
- docker:
- helm: 

> If helm is not installed, let see below details or [here](https://github.com/helm/helm#install).

Reviewer 2: ![badge](https://img.shields.io/badge/review-suggestion-blue.svg?style=flat-square)
I think installing Helm document https://helm.sh/docs/intro/install/ is better.

<details>
    <summary>optional installation</summray>
    <div>
    <pre>

>         1. helm

Reviewer 2: ![badge](https://img.shields.io/badge/review-suggestion-blue.svg?style=flat-square)
Following the guide https://helm.sh/docs/intro/install/#from-script, running the install script is the easiest way to install it.
```sh
curl https://raw.githubusercontent.com/helm/helm/master/scripts/get-helm-3 | bash
```

            <code>
            # brew|Scoop|GoFish
            [brew|scoop|gofish] install helm
            # chocolatey
            choco install kubernetes-helm
            </code>
    </pre>
    </div>
</details>

## Starting Vald on k8s cluster

You have to install helm. Please check [here](https://github.com/helm/helm#install).

### Deploy

> There shows procudure of deployment for vald with scylla, which is used for backup database.

Reviewer 2: ![badge](https://img.shields.io/badge/review-nits-green.svg?style=flat-square)
```suggestion
This section shows how to deploy Vald with Scylla, that is used as a datastore for meta and backup-manager.
```

> If you want to learn about scylla more, please refer to [here](https://www.scylladb.com/).

Reviewer 2: ![badge](https://img.shields.io/badge/review-nits-green.svg?style=flat-square)
```suggestion
If you want to learn about Scylla, please refer to [the official website](https://www.scylladb.com/).
```

> Please confirm `kubectl cluster-info` before deployment.

Reviewer 2: ![badge](https://img.shields.io/badge/review-suggestion-blue.svg?style=flat-square)
```suggestion
Please confirm the right cluster to deploy it by running `kubectl cluster-info` before the steps below.
```

> Please confirm the right cluster to deploy it by running `kubectl cluster-info` before the steps below.

Reviewer: Move this sentence to step 1?

1. Prepare scylla database and k8s metrics-server

    At first, you have to apply scylla as backup database.

    ```bash
    cd {vald_project_root}
    

>     kubectl apply -f k8s/jobs/db/casandora/configmap.yaml

Reviewer 4: I think the command below is correct
`kubectl apply -f k8s/jobs/db/initialize/cassandra/configmap.yaml`

    kubectl apply -f k8s/external/scylla
    ```

    Apply k8s metrics-server

    ```bash
    kubectl apply -f k8s/metrics/metrics-server
    ```

2. Deployment from helm template command

    ```

>     helm install --values example/helm/values-scylla.yaml vald

Reviewer 4: I think the command below is correct
```
 helm install --values example/helm/values-scylla.yaml vald vald/vald  
```

>     helm install --values example/helm/values-scylla.yaml vald vald/vald

Reviewer: helm repo add vald https://vald.vdaas.org/charts

Reviewer: helm install vald vald/vald --values example/helm/values-scylla.yaml

    ```

> 

Reviewer: validate?

### Run

> This chapter shows procudure of running Vald from localhost with fashion-mnist dataset.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This chapter shows the procedure to run Vald with fashion-mnist dataset.
```

1. Port Forward

    ```bash

>     kubectl port-forward {Vald-gateway-pod-name} 8081:8081

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    kubectl port-forward deployment/vald-gateway 8081:8081
```

    ```

> 2. Install dataset

Reviewer 3: Download dataset

    To search neighors of input vector, vald should have dataset.

>     In this case, you use [fashion-mnist](https://github.com/erikbern/ann-benchmarks) as dataset.

Reviewer 2: ![badge](https://img.shields.io/badge/review-suggestion-blue.svg?style=flat-square)
the url should be https://github.com/zalandoresearch/fashion-mnist, i think.

>     To search neighbors of input vector, Vald should have dataset.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    In this tutorial. we use [fashion-mnist](https://github.com/zalandoresearch/fashion-mnist) as a dataset for indexing and search query.  
```

>     In this case, you use [fashion-mnist](https://github.com/zalandoresearch/fashion-mnist) as dataset.

Reviewer: delete this line?

    ```bash
    # move to working directory
    cd example/client
    
    # get fashion-mnist

>     wget https://ann-benchmarks.com/fashion-mnist-784-euclidean.hdf5

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    wget http://ann-benchmarks.com/fashion-mnist-784-euclidean.hdf5
```

    ```

3. Running example

    Insert, Search and Remove will be running as follows.
        - Insert: insert and indexing training dataset to Vald agent
        - Search: search neighbor vector of test vector.
        - Remove: remove indexing from Vald agent.

>     ```bash

Reviewer: yum install hdf5-devel

    go run main.go
    ```

## Advanced

> ### Customize values

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Customize Vald
```

> Vald can be customized as desired, e.g. the number of vector dimension, the number of replica and so on.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Vald is highly customizable. For example you can configure the number of vector dimension, the number of replica and etc.
```

> If it needs to customized Vald, it can be applied by creating/editing `values.yaml`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can customize Vald by creating/editing `values.yaml`.
```

> In near future, instructions of `values.yaml` will be published.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We will publish the instructions of `values.yaml` soon.
```

> ### Another way to deployment

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Another way to deploy Vald
```

> For `Get Started`, we show the deployment procudure for Vald with scylla.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In the `Get Started` section, we show how to deploy Vald with scylla.
```

> Vald can be deployed by another ways, which are used by helm or `kind` command. (There are needed compressor database, mysql + redis or casandora ).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Vald can be deployed in another way, which is used by helm or `kind` command. (Compressor database is required, for example mysql + redis or casandora ).
```

> Let try another way suited for you.

Reviewer: Maybe we can delete this line or write some doc about how to deploy in another way

Author: I think doc about another way of deploy Vald should be written another doc. 
So, I'll delete this line.

    ```bash
    # move to working directory
    cd example/client
    
    # get fashion-mnist
    wget http://ann-benchmarks.com/fashion-mnist-784-euclidean.hdf5
    ```

3. Running example

    Insert, Search and Remove will be running as follows.<br>
    - Insert: insert and indexing training dataset to Vald agent
    - Search: search neighbor vector of test vector.
    - Remove: remove indexing from Vald agent.
    
    Also, Vald provides clients that support multiple langurages such as Java, Node.js, Python and so on.
    In this case, we use the client which is written by golang.

    ```bash
    # if you don't install hdf5-devel, please install hdf5-devl at first.
    # yum install -y hdf5-devel
    # apt-get install libhdf5-serial-dev
    # brew install hdf5

    # run example
    go run main.go
    ```

## Advanced

### Customize Vald

Vald is highly customizable.
For example you can configure the number of vector dimension, the number of replica and etc.
You can customize Vald by creating/editing `values.yaml`.
We will publish the instructions of `values.yaml` soon.

> ### Another way to deploy Vlad

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
### Another way to deploy Vald
```

In the `Get Started` section, we'll show you how to deploy Vald with Scylla DB.

> Vald can be deployed in another way, which is used by helm or `kind` command. (Compressor datastore is required, for example mysql + redis or casandora ).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Vald can be deployed in another way, which is used by Helm or `kind` command. (Compressor datastore is required, for example mysql + redis or casandra ).
```

# Get Started

For the one who is interested in Vald, this article will help you a way to deploy and run Vald on k8s.
In this article, Scylla DB is used as a backend datastore for index-metadata and backup-manager.

> Fashion-mnist is used as an example dataset.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
For the one who is interested in Vald, this article will show you how to deploy and run Vald on k8s.
This article uses Scylla DB as the backend data store for metadata-management and backup-manager.
Fashion-mnist is used as an example of a dataset.
```

1. [About](#About)
    1. [Main Features](#Main-Features)
    2. [Requirements](#Requirements)
2. [Starting Vald on k8s cluster](#Starting-Vald-on-k8s-cluster)
    1. [Deploy](#Deploy)
    2. [Run](#Run)
3. [Advanced](#Advanced)

## About

Vald is distributed high scalable and high-speed approximate nearest neighbor search engine.<br>
It provides the searching result of any input (e.g. word, sentence, image ...) which is coverted to a multi-dimensional vector when searching the neighbor.<br>
Vald is designed base on Cloud Native.

> It uses the fastest ANN Algorithm [NGT](https://github.com/yahoojapan/NGT) to search neighbors.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Vald is a distributed highly scalable and fast approximate nearest neighbor dense vector search engine.<br>
It provides the search result of any input (e.g. word, sentence, image, etc.) which is coverted to a multi-dimensional vector when searching the neighbor.<br>
Vald is designed base on Cloud Native.
It uses the fastest ANN Algorithm [NGT](https://github.com/yahoojapan/NGT) to search neighbors.
```

    vald-manager-compressor-6c95bdbfb5-q8hc6   1/1     Running   0          5m49s
    vald-manager-compressor-6c95bdbfb5-zp8hb   1/1     Running   0          5m49s
    vald-manager-index-59676f54bb-nzfwt        1/1     Running   0          5m49s
    vald-meta-559744db-bcrdw                   1/1     Running   0          5m49s
    vald-meta-559744db-hz7gd                   1/1     Running   0          5m49s
    ```
    </details>

### Run using example code

This chapter shows how to perform a search action in Vald with fashion-mnist dataset.

1. Port Forward

    ```bash
    kubectl port-forward deployment/vald-gateway 8081:8081
    ```

2. Download dataset

    In this tutorial. we use [fashion-mnist](https://github.com/zalandoresearch/fashion-mnist) as a dataset for indexing and search query.

    ```bash
    # move to working directory
    cd example/client
    
    # download fashion-mnist testing dataset
    wget http://ann-benchmarks.com/fashion-mnist-784-euclidean.hdf5
    ```

3. Running example

    Vald provides multiple langurages client library such as golang, Java, Node.js, Python and so on.<br>

>     In this case, we use [vald-client-go](https://github.com/vdaas/vald-client-go) which is written by golang.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
    In this example, the fashion-mnist dataset will insert into the vald cluster and perform a search using [vald-client-go](https://github.com/vdaas/vald-client-go).
```

# Get Started

> For the one who is interested in Vald, this article will show you a way to deploy and run Vald on k8s.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For the one who is interested in Vald, this article will show you how to deploy and run Vald on k8s.
```

This article uses Scylla DB as the backend data store for metadata-management and backup-manager.
Fashion-mnist is used as an example of a dataset.

1. [About](#About)
    1. [Main Features](#Main-Features)
    2. [Requirements](#Requirements)
2. [Starting Vald on k8s cluster](#Starting-Vald-on-k8s-cluster)
    1. [Deploy](#Deploy)
    2. [Run](#Run)
3. [Advanced](#Advanced)

## About

Vald is a distributed highly scalable and fast approximate nearest neighbor dense vector search engine.<br>

> It provides the search result of any input (e.g. word, sentence, image and etc.) which is coverted to a multi-dimensional vector when searching the neighbor.<br>

Reviewer 2: maybe there's better expression :thinking:

Author: @rinx 
How do you think about the below suggestion? 

```suggestion
Vald enables large scale image similarity search and large scale specific object (e.g. text, video, face and etc.) similarity search.<br>
```

Reviewer 2: hmm.
How about the followings?

```
Using Vald, you can construct your own similarity search engine (e.g. image, text, video, face, etc...) just by extracting feature vector.
```

Reviewer 3: Hmm, both of them sounds good to me
In rinx's opinion, I'd like to add the word "large scale" it's vald's core feature

Author: Well. I just think a sentence. How about the following?

`Using Vald, you can construct your similarity search engine (e.g. image, text, video, face, etc...) just by extracting feature vector, even if you handle large scale specific object.`

Vald is designed base on Cloud Native.
It uses the fastest ANN Algorithm [NGT](https://github.com/yahoojapan/NGT) to search neighbors.
(If you are interested in ANN benchmarks, please refer to [the official website](http://ann-benchmarks.com/).)

### Main Features

- Auto Indexing

>     - Normally, when changing the Graph Index, the Graph must be locked, but Vald uses distributed index graph, it is extremely difficult for the user to reconstruct the Graph.

Reviewer: distributed index graph is not related to lock... there are 2 different feature?

Reviewer 3: @kevindiu we definitely  need lock for graph structure in multithreaded  environment.
It's difficult point to dynamically  reconstruct  large scale graph structure

Reviewer: maybe I do not understand why we need to write this sentence here?? @@

Reviewer 3: In previous version of vector search API such as NGTD we need stop entire services when reconstructing the index, but due to changes in locking logic and multi-thread management, Vald will not stop the service when reconstructing.

Reviewer 3: it's kind of strong feature, we should describe about it

Reviewer: maybe it is better to write it on another main feature something like `No downtime during indexing` @@

Reviewer: I will add `Asynchronies indexing` section @@

    - Therefore, Vald automatically indexes distributed Graphs sequentially.

- Ingress/Egress Filltering

>     - Vald has flexible customizability, which is the Ingress/Egress filter.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    - Vald has it's own highly customizable ngress/Egress filter.
```

Reviewer 3: type ngress -> Ingress

>     - These can be freely configured by the user to fit the Vald grpc interface.

Reviewer: Vald grpc means grpc?
```suggestion
    - Which can be configured to fit the gRPC interface.
```

        - Ingress Filter: Ability to Vectorize through filter on request.
        - Egress Filter: A function to rerank or filter the Search response with your own algorithm.

- Horizontal Scaling
    - Vald is a cloud-native vector search engine running on Kubernetes, which enables horizontal scalling of memory and cpu for billion scale of vector data.

- Auto Index Backup

>     - Vald has auto index backup feature using MySQL + Redis or Cassndora which enables disaster recovery.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    - Vald has auto indexing backup feature using MySQL + Redis or Cassndora which enables disaster recovery.
```

Reviewer 3: index is fine

- Distributed Indexing

>     - Vald indexes vecotr to distributed multiple agent. It means each agent has different graph index.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    - Vald distribute the indexes vector to multiple agent. Which means each agent has different graph index.
```

- Index Replication
    - Vald stores each index in multiple agents which enables index replicas.

>     - Rebalance replica when some pods go down.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    - Rebalance the replica when some pods go down.
```

- Easy to use
    - Vald can be easily installed in a few steps and Vald is highly customizable.

### Requirements

- k8s:  v1.17 ~
- go:   v1.14 ~
- helm: v3 ~
- libhdf5 (_`libhdf5` is only required doing Get-Started, is not required Vald._)

If helm/hdf5 is not installed, please install helm (see below details or [here](https://helm.sh/docs/intro/install))/hdf5 (see below details or [here](https://www.hdfgroup.org/)).

<details><summary>optional installation</summary><br>
install helm

```bash
curl https://raw.githubusercontent.com/helm/helm/master/scripts/get-helm-3 | bash
```
install hdf5
```bash
yum install -y hdf5-devel
apt-get install libhdf5-serial-dev

> brew install hdf5

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
## yum
yum install -y hdf5-devel

## apt
apt-get install libhdf5-serial-dev

## homebrew
brew install hdf5
```

    vald-gateway-5bf95f8d97-5wtb2              1/1     Running   0          78s
    vald-gateway-5bf95f8d97-7d6j7              1/1     Running   0          78s
    vald-gateway-5bf95f8d97-gx45c              1/1     Running   0          5m49s
    vald-gateway-5bf95f8d97-kx2c5              1/1     Running   0          78s
    vald-gateway-5bf95f8d97-np2lc              1/1     Running   0          5m49s
    vald-manager-backup-6c9695b69b-9xngp       1/1     Running   0          5m49s
    vald-manager-backup-6c9695b69b-jvwft       1/1     Running   0          5m49s
    vald-manager-backup-6c9695b69b-mjs2r       1/1     Running   0          5m49s
    vald-manager-compressor-6c95bdbfb5-m5t7t   1/1     Running   0          5m49s
    vald-manager-compressor-6c95bdbfb5-q8hc6   1/1     Running   0          5m49s
    vald-manager-compressor-6c95bdbfb5-zp8hb   1/1     Running   0          5m49s
    vald-manager-index-59676f54bb-nzfwt        1/1     Running   0          5m49s
    vald-meta-559744db-bcrdw                   1/1     Running   0          5m49s
    vald-meta-559744db-hz7gd                   1/1     Running   0          5m49s
    ```
    </details>

### Run

> This chapter shows the procudure of run Vald with fashion-mnist dataset.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This chapter shows the procedure to run Vald with fashion-mnist dataset.
```

1. Port Forward

    ```bash
    kubectl port-forward deployment/vald-gateway 8081:8081
    ```

2. Download dataset

    In this tutorial. we use [fashion-mnist](https://github.com/zalandoresearch/fashion-mnist) as a dataset for indexing and search query.

    ```bash
    # move to working directory
    cd example/client
    
    # get fashion-mnist
    wget http://ann-benchmarks.com/fashion-mnist-784-euclidean.hdf5
    ```

3. Running example

>     Vald provides clients that support multiple langurages such as Java, Node.js, Python and so on.<br>

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    Vald provides multiple languages client library such as golang, Java, Node.js, Python and so on.<br>
```

    In this case, we use [vald-client-go](https://github.com/vdaas/vald-client-go) which is written by golang.

>     We use [`example/client/main.go`](../../example/client/main.go) for running example.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    We use [`example/client/main.go`](../../example/client/main.go) to run the example.
```

    3. Create the gRPC connection and Vald client with gRPC connection.
        <details><summary>example code</summary><br>

        ```go
        ctx := context.Background()

        conn, err := grpc.DialContext(ctx, grpcServerAddr, grpc.WithInsecure())
        if err != nil {
            glg.Fatal(err)
        }

        client := vald.NewValdClient(conn)
        ```
        </details>
    4. Insert and Index
    - Insert and Indexing 400 training datasets to the Vald agent.
        <details><summary>example code</summary><br>

        ```go
        for i := range ids [:insertCount] {
            if i%10 == 0 {
                glg.Infof("Inserted %d", i)
            }
            _, err := client.Insert(ctx, &payload.Object_Vector{
                Id: ids[i],
                Vector: train[i],
            })
            if err != nil {
                glg.Fatal(err)
            }
        }
        ```
        </details>
    - Wait until indexing finish.
        <details><summary>example code</summary><br>

        ```go
        glg.Info("Wait for indexing to finish")
        time.Sleep(time.Duration(indexingWaitSeconds) * time.Second)
        ```
        </details>

>     5. search

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    5. Search
```

>     - Seach 10 neighbor vectors fot each 20 test datasets and return list of neighbor vector.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    - Search 10 neighbor vectors for each 20 test datasets and return list of neighbor vector.
```

    - When getting approximate vectors, the Vald client sends search config and vector to the server via gRPC.
        <details><summary>example code</summary><br>

        ```go
        glg.Infof("Start search %d times", testCount)
        for i, vec := range test[:testCount] {
            res, err := client.Seach(ctx, &payload.Search_Request){
                Vector: vec,
                Config: &payload.Search_Config{
                    Num: 10,
                    Radius: -1,
                    Epsilon: 0.01,
                }
            }
            if err != nil {
                glg.Fatal(err)
            }

            b, _ := json.MarshalIndent(res.GetResults(), "", " ")
            glg.Infof("%d - Results : %s\n\n", i+1, string(b))
            time.Sleep(1 * time.Second)
        }
        ```
        </details>

    ```bash
    # run example
    go run main.go
    ```

## Advanced

### Customize Vald

Vald is highly customizable.
For example you can configure the number of vector dimension, the number of replica and etc.
You can customize Vald by creating/editing `values.yaml`.

> We will publish the instructions of `values.yaml` soon.

Reviewer: I am not sure what it means..

Author: I think it means like `description` or `manual`

### Another way to deploy Vald

> In the `Get Started` section, we'll show you how to deploy Vald with Scylla DB.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In the `Get Started` section, we show you how to deploy Vald with Scylla DB.
```

> Vald can be deployed in another way, which is used by Helm or `kind` command. (Compressor datastore is required, for example mysql + redis or casandora ).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Vald can also be deployed by Helm or `kind` command. (Compressor datastore is required, for example mysql + redis or casandora ).
```

Reviewer: can we add something like "for more information, please refer to xxx"?

Author: It's future work.
When we created the article about this, we'd like to update this sentence.

# Get Started

> For the one who is interested in Vald, this article will show you how to deploy and run Vald on your k8s cluster.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This article will show you how to deploy and run Vald on your k8s cluster.
```

This article uses Scylla DB as the backend data store for metadata-management and backup-manager.
Fashion-mnist is used as an example of a dataset.

1. [About](#About)
    1. [Main Features](#Main-Features)
    2. [Requirements](#Requirements)
2. [Starting Vald on k8s cluster](#Starting-Vald-on-k8s-cluster)
    1. [Deploy](#Deploy)
    2. [Run](#Run)
3. [Advanced](#Advanced)

> ## About

Reviewer: Maybe better to move this section to readme.md?

Vald is a distributed highly scalable and fast approximate nearest neighbor dense feature vector search engine.<br>

> Vald can handle large amount of specific objects, such as image, text, video, and etc.<br>

Reviewer: can Vald handle these types of objects at the same time?

Reviewer 3: not same time, but we can handle large amount of same type objects

Vald is designed base on Cloud Native.
It uses the fastest ANN Algorithm [NGT](https://github.com/yahoojapan/NGT) to search neighbors.
(If you are interested in ANN benchmarks, please refer to [the official website](http://ann-benchmarks.com/).)

> ### Main Features

Reviewer: Maybe better to move this section to readme.md?

Reviewer 3: I think so

- Auto Indexing
    - Normally, when changing the Graph Index, the Graph must be locked, but Vald uses distributed index graph, it is extremely difficult for the user to reconstruct the Graph.
    - Therefore, Vald automatically indexes distributed Graphs sequentially.

- Ingress/Egress Filltering

>     - Vald has it's own highly customizable Ingress/Egress filter.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    - Vald implements it's own highly customizable Ingress/Egress filter.
```

>     - Which can be configured by the user to fit the gRPC interface.

Reviewer: BTW what is it means?

```suggestion
    - can be configured to fit the gRPC interface.
```

        - Ingress Filter: Ability to Vectorize through filter on request.

>         - Egress Filter: A function to rerank or filter the Search response with your own algorithm.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
        - Egress Filter: rerank or filter the searching result with your own algorithm.
```

> - Horizontal Scaling

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Horizontal Scalable
```

>     - Vald is a cloud-native vector search engine running on Kubernetes, which enables horizontal scalling of memory and cpu for billion scale of vector data.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    - enable horizontal scaling on memory and cpu for massive amount of vector data
```

Reviewer 3: May be it can be divide? 
we should also describe about how Vald is cloud-native

> - Auto Index Backup

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Auto Indexing Backup
```

    - Vald has auto index backup feature using MySQL + Redis or Cassndora which enables disaster recovery.

- Distributed Indexing

>     - Vald distribute indexes vecotr to multiple agent. Which means each agent has different graph index.

Reviewer: any advantages of this feature?

```suggestion
    - Vald distribute vector index to multiple agent; each agent stores different index.
```

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Vald distribute vector index to multiple agent, each agent stores different index.
```

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
    - Vald distribute vector index to multiple agent, each agent stores different index.
```

- Index Replication

>     - Vald stores each index in multiple agents which enables index replicas.

Reviewer: seems it has the different meaning from the `Distributed Indexing` section?

Reviewer 3: Replication's core feature is backup and rebalance indexes

>     - Rebalance the replica when some pods go down.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    - Automatically rebalance the replica when some Vald agent goes down.
```

- Easy to use

>     - Vald can be easily installed in a few steps and Vald is highly customizable.

Reviewer: Highly customizable is another feature of Vald??

```suggestion
    - Vald can be easily installed in a few steps.
```

Reviewer 3: hmm, @kevindiu could you please add Highly customizable section ?
after that I can agree with @kevindiu

Reviewer: OK, will do it when I have time.

### Requirements

- k8s:  v1.17 ~
- go:   v1.14 ~
- helm: v3 ~

> - libhdf5 (_`libhdf5` is only required doing Get-Started, is not required Vald._)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- libhdf5 (_only required for this tutorial._)
```

> If helm/hdf5 is not installed, please install helm (see below details or [here](https://helm.sh/docs/intro/install))/hdf5 (see below details or [here](https://www.hdfgroup.org/)).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Helm and hdf5 is required for this tutorial. If helm or hdf5 is not installed, please install [helm](https://helm.sh/docs/intro/install)) and [hdf5](https://www.hdfgroup.org/)).
```

> <details><summary>optional installation</summary><br>

Reviewer: ```suggestion
<details><summary>Install Helm</summary><br>
```

Reviewer 3: This section is optional how can we describe about it?

Reviewer: How about this?
```suggestion
<details><summary>[Optional] Install Helm</summary><br>```

install helm

```bash
curl https://raw.githubusercontent.com/helm/helm/master/scripts/get-helm-3 | bash
```

> install hdf5

Reviewer: ```suggestion
</details>
<details><summary>Install hdf5</summary><br>
```

```bash
## yum
yum install -y hdf5-devel

## apt
apt-get install libhdf5-serial-dev

## homebrew
brew install hdf5
```
</details>

> ## Starting Vald on k8s cluster

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Deploy and Run Vald on K8s cluster
```

### Deploy

This section shows how to deploy Vald with Scylla, which is used as a datastore for index-metadata and backup-manager.
If you want to learn about Scylla, please refer to [the official website](https://www.scylladb.com/).

> 1. Confirm the right cluster to deploy

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Confirm which cluster to deploy
```

    ```bash
    kubectl cluster-info
    ```

2. Prepare Scylla DB and k8s metrics-server

>     At first, you have to apply scylla as backup database.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    Deploy Scylla as a backup database.
```

    ```bash

>     cd path/to/vald/root 

Reviewer: can delete this line?

Reviewer 3: maybe it's ok we don't need delete this section

Author: we can delete :)

    
    kubectl apply -f k8s/jobs/db/initialize/cassandra/configmap.yaml
    kubectl apply -f k8s/external/scylla
    ```

    Apply k8s metrics-server

    ```bash
    kubectl apply -f k8s/metrics/metrics-server
    ```

> 3. Deployment from helm template command

Reviewer: ```suggestion
3. Deploy Vald using helm
```

    ```bash
    helm repo add vald https://vald.vdaas.org/charts
    helm install vald vald/vald --values example/helm/values-scylla.yaml
    ```

4. Verify

    ```bash
    kubectl get pods
    ```

>     <details><summary>output example</summary><br>

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    <details><summary>Example output</summary><br>
```

>     If the deployment is successful, you can check the following information.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    If the deployment is successful, all Vald components should be running.
```

    vald-gateway-5bf95f8d97-5wtb2              1/1     Running   0          78s
    vald-gateway-5bf95f8d97-7d6j7              1/1     Running   0          78s
    vald-gateway-5bf95f8d97-gx45c              1/1     Running   0          5m49s
    vald-gateway-5bf95f8d97-kx2c5              1/1     Running   0          78s
    vald-gateway-5bf95f8d97-np2lc              1/1     Running   0          5m49s
    vald-manager-backup-6c9695b69b-9xngp       1/1     Running   0          5m49s
    vald-manager-backup-6c9695b69b-jvwft       1/1     Running   0          5m49s
    vald-manager-backup-6c9695b69b-mjs2r       1/1     Running   0          5m49s
    vald-manager-compressor-6c95bdbfb5-m5t7t   1/1     Running   0          5m49s
    vald-manager-compressor-6c95bdbfb5-q8hc6   1/1     Running   0          5m49s
    vald-manager-compressor-6c95bdbfb5-zp8hb   1/1     Running   0          5m49s
    vald-manager-index-59676f54bb-nzfwt        1/1     Running   0          5m49s
    vald-meta-559744db-bcrdw                   1/1     Running   0          5m49s
    vald-meta-559744db-hz7gd                   1/1     Running   0          5m49s
    ```
    </details>

### Run

> This chapter shows the procedure to run Vald with fashion-mnist dataset.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This chapter shows how to run Vald with fashion-mnist dataset.
```

1. Port Forward

    ```bash
    kubectl port-forward deployment/vald-gateway 8081:8081
    ```

2. Download dataset

    In this tutorial. we use [fashion-mnist](https://github.com/zalandoresearch/fashion-mnist) as a dataset for indexing and search query.

    ```bash
    # move to working directory
    cd example/client
    
    # get fashion-mnist
    wget http://ann-benchmarks.com/fashion-mnist-784-euclidean.hdf5
    ```

3. Running example

    Vald provides multiple langurages client library such as golang, Java, Node.js, Python and so on.<br>
    In this case, we use [vald-client-go](https://github.com/vdaas/vald-client-go) which is written by golang.

    We use [`example/client/main.go`](../../example/client/main.go) to run the example.

>     This will execute 4 steps.

Reviewer: I think users can understand the source code and the comments from the main.go, we just need to explain what is the example program do. We can just example the important part of the example program.

```suggestion
    The example program will insert 400 testing datasets and perform searching for each 20 datasets.
```

>     1. init

Reviewer: we can delete this section.

Reviewer: User do not need to understand the init package in order to do this tutorial, and also the sentense `We use [`example/client/main.go`](../../example/client/main.go) to run the example.` is enough to describe we are using the vald-client-go.

        ```
        </details>
    5. Search
    - Search 10 neighbor vectors for each 20 test datasets and return list of neighbor vector.
    - When getting approximate vectors, the Vald client sends search config and vector to the server via gRPC.
        <details><summary>example code</summary><br>

        ```go
        glg.Infof("Start search %d times", testCount)
        for i, vec := range test[:testCount] {
            res, err := client.Seach(ctx, &payload.Search_Request){
                Vector: vec,
                Config: &payload.Search_Config{
                    Num: 10,
                    Radius: -1,
                    Epsilon: 0.01,
                }
            }
            if err != nil {
                glg.Fatal(err)
            }

            b, _ := json.MarshalIndent(res.GetResults(), "", " ")
            glg.Infof("%d - Results : %s\n\n", i+1, string(b))
            time.Sleep(1 * time.Second)
        }
        ```
        </details>

    ```bash
    # run example
    go run main.go
    ```

## Advanced

### Customize Vald

Vald is highly customizable.
For example you can configure the number of vector dimension, the number of replica and etc.

> You can customize Vald by creating/editing `values.yaml`.

Reviewer: add a link to the values.yaml?

Author: What is a link of the `values.yaml` you mentioned?

Author: I just understand :)

We will publish the description of `values.yaml` soon.

### Another way to deploy Vald

> In the `Get Started` section, we show you how to deploy Vald with Scylla DB.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In the `Get Started` section, you learnt how to deploy Vald with Scylla DB using Helm.
```

> Vald can also be deployed by Helm or `kind` command. (Compressor datastore is required, for example mysql + redis or casandora ).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Vald can be deployed by Helm or `kind` command. (Compressor datastore is required, for example mysql + redis or casandora ).
```

> We will publish the document about this in near future.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We will publish the deployment document in the near future.
```

Reviewer 3: not only deployment

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We will publish the document about the setup procedure and configuration in the future.
```
